README.md, before:


# Setup amqp pub/sub clients in a docker container
* build the images in `cri` unless they are already built
* currently the rpi image is at mak3r/amqp-tools:rpi

## install rabbitmq and services in a pod inside k8s
1. Create the k8s resources defined in k8s-resources
1. Create a fanout exchange 
Note: if the pod is redeployed this needs to be re-run. To resolve this, put this in rabbitmq startup config
    * get the pod name for rabbitmq
    * `POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=rabbitmq-ns-rabbitmq -n rabbitmq-ns -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")`
    * create the exchange
    * `kubectl exec -c rabbitmq -n rabbitmq-ns $POD -- /usr/local/bin/rabbitmqadmin declare exchange name=demo.logs type=fanout`
1. Build the services required to access rabbitmq
    1. 

### There are consumer and producer deployments but they are just examples.
* The same deployment can be used for consuming or producing.
* Use the content below to produce or consume from the amqp-tools image or from a pod hosting that container.


# Produce and Consume to/from pods in the cluster
## amqp publish
### amqp publish 100 messages
`for i in {0..100}; do amqp-publish -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" -b "Hello $i \n"; done`

### amqp publish 100 messages from a script
`talk.sh`:
```
echo Hello $1
```
`for i in {0..100}; do talk=$(./talk.sh "$i"); amqp-publish -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" -b "$talk"; done`

## amqp consume
### continuously consume
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" cat`
### consume 25 messages
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" -c 25 cat`
### consume continuously and specify a queue name
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" -q "k8s-consumer" cat`

--- 

# Produce and Consume to/from the hostname (for external clients)
*You must expose the HostPort as a Kubernetes Service for this method*

## amqp publish
### amqp publish 100 messages
`for i in {0..100}; do amqp-publish -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" -b "Hello $i \n"; done`

### amqp publish 100 messages from a script
`talk.sh`:
```
echo Hello $1
```
`for i in {0..100}; do talk=$(./talk.sh "$i"); amqp-publish -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" -b "$talk"; done`

## amqp consume
### continuously consume
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" cat`
### consume 25 messages
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" -c 25 cat`
### consume continuously and specify a queue name
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" -q "k8s-consumer" cat`


## links
https://www.systutorials.com/docs/linux/man/1-amqp-consume/
https://www.systutorials.com/docs/linux/man/1-amqp-publish/
https://hub.docker.com/_/rabbitmq
https://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html

Commit message:

Basic implementation of pub/sub working
Cleaned up the basic files to have rabbitmq,
the consumer and the producer functioning as one would expect.
The README.md has been updated as well.
The service required for internal communication has also been updated.

README.md, after:


# Setup amqp pub/sub clients in a docker container
* build the images in `cri/` unless they are already built
    * `docker build -t amqp-tools:x86 .`
    * `docker build -t amqp-tools:rpi .`
* If you build your own images, of course you will also need to update the image reference in the k8s resource specs
* currently the rpi image is at mak3r/amqp-tools:rpi

## Install rabbitmq and services in a pod inside k8s
1. Create rabbit mq container
    * `kubectl apply -f k8s-resources/rabbitmq.yaml`
1. Setup a fanout exchange 
Note: if the pod is redeployed this needs to be re-run. To resolve this, put the configuration for a fanout exchange in rabbitmq startup config file (out of scope)
    * Get the pod name for rabbitmq
    * `POD=$(kubectl get pod -l app=rabbitmq-ns-rabbitmq -n rabbitmq-ns -o jsonpath="{.items[0].metadata.name}")`
    * Create the exchange
    * `kubectl exec -c rabbitmq -n rabbitmq-ns $POD -- /usr/local/bin/rabbitmqadmin declare exchange name=demo.logs type=fanout`
1. Create the clients and service required to access rabbitmq
    * `kubectl apply -f k8s-resources/rabbitmq-svc.yaml`
    * `kubectl apply -f k8s-resources/producer.yaml`
    * `kubectl apply -f k8s-resources/consumer.yaml`

### There are consumer and producer deployments but they are just examples.
* The same deployment can be used for consuming or producing.
* Use the content below to produce or consume from the amqp-tools image or from a pod hosting that container.


# Produce and Consume to/from pods in the cluster
## amqp publish
### amqp publish 100 messages
`for i in {0..100}; do amqp-publish -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" -b "Hello $i"; done`

### amqp publish 100 messages from a script
`talk.sh`:
```
echo Hello $1
```
`for i in {0..100}; do talk=$(./talk.sh "$i"); amqp-publish -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" -b "$talk"; done`

## amqp consume
### continuously consume
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" awk 1`
### consume 25 messages
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" -c 25 awk 1`
### consume continuously and specify a queue name
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@rabbitmq.rabbitmq-ns.svc -e demo.logs -r "key" -q "k8s-consumer" awk 1`

--- 

# Produce and Consume to/from the hostname (for external clients)
*You must expose the HostPort as a Kubernetes Service for this method*

## amqp publish
### amqp publish 100 messages
`for i in {0..100}; do amqp-publish -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" -b "Hello $i"; done`

### amqp publish 100 messages from a script
`talk.sh`:
```
echo Hello $1
```
`for i in {0..100}; do talk=$(./talk.sh "$i"); amqp-publish -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" -b "$talk"; done`

## amqp consume
### continuously consume
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" awk 1`
### consume 25 messages
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" -c 25 awk 1`
### consume continuously and specify a queue name
`amqp-consume -u amqp://guest:guest@<hostname> -e demo.logs -r "key" -q "k8s-consumer" awk 1`


## links
https://www.systutorials.com/docs/linux/man/1-amqp-consume/
https://www.systutorials.com/docs/linux/man/1-amqp-publish/
https://hub.docker.com/_/rabbitmq
https://www.rabbitmq.com/management.html
